<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title> Minutes Meeting 2015 04 14 |  The Open Effects Association</title>
<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/x-icon" href="/assets/ofx_favicon-c6cb586c0f8efbaeff3167d1fd7cfca2.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/assets/application-8fbc3aa4b380a52e15d414a59177d3a2.css" />
<script src="/assets/application-f474998312dbf9d63cf3d555583ac5a1.js"></script>
<meta name="csrf-param" content="authenticity_token" />
<meta name="csrf-token" content="dDnThM9B/S8xcy80n1REsppK5jx+Lb/G0iidf1ekGWZaI7s3aXXwAISsbdnrZv9mz2qSeSdQmSQcKYkSQvUYXQ==" />
<meta content='IE=edge' http_equiv='X-UA-Compatible'>
<meta content='width=device-width, initial-scale=1' name='viewport'>
<script src='//netdna.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.1.1/js/bootstrap.min.js'></script>
</head>
<body class='c_minutes a_show' data-spy='scroll' data-target='.navbar-top' role='document'>
<div class='modal fade' id='terminal'>
<div class='modal-dialog modal-lg'>
<div class='modal-content'>
<div class='modal-header'>
<div aria-hidden='true' class='button close' data-dismiss='modal' type='button'>&times;</div>
<h4 class='modal-title'>Terminal Output</h4>
</div>
<div class='modal-body'>
<div class='window'></div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class='wrapper'>
<div class='navbar navbar-inverse navbar-fixed-top' role='components'>
<div class='container'>
<div class='navbar-header'>
<button class='navbar-toggle' data-target='.navbar-collapse' data-toggle='collapse' type='button'>
<span class='sr-only'>Toggle components</span>
<span class='icon-bar'></span>
<span class='icon-bar'></span>
<span class='icon-bar'></span>
</button>
</div>
<div class='navbar-collapse collapse'>
<div class='row'>
<div class='navbar-left'>
<div class='navbar-top'>
<div class='mobile'>
<ul class='nav navbar-nav'>
<li><a href="/">Welcome</a></li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/standard_changes">Standards Discussion</a></li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/contact_form">Contact</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class='desktop'>
<ul class='nav navbar-nav'>
<li class='nav-logo'>
<a class="navbar-link" href="/"><img src="/assets/OFX_small-41bc647075217376f758003aebeacf15.png" alt="Ofx small" /></a>
</li>
<li class='dropdown'>
<a href="/">Welcome <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-circle-arrow-left"></span></a>
<ul class='dropdown-menu inverse-dropdown'>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" href="#standard">Why a Standard?</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" href="#implementers">For Implementers</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" href="#organization">Association Business</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class='dropdown api'>
<a class='navbar-link'>API Documentation <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-circle-arrow-down"></span></a>
<ul class='dropdown-menu inverse-dropdown'>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" target="_blank" href="/documentation/api_doc">API Reference</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" target="_blank" href="https://openfx.readthedocs.io/en/doc/Reference/index.html">Programming Reference</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" target="_blank" href="https://openfx.readthedocs.io/en/doc/Guide/index.html">Programming Guide</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/standard_changes">Standards Discussion</a></li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/contact_form">Contact</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class='desktop'>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class='container' role='main'>
</div>
<div class='container'>
<div class='panel panel-default'>
<div class='panel-heading'>
<h3 class='panel-title'>
Association General Meeting
<div class='pull-right'>
UNPUBLISHED
</div>
</h3>
</div>
<div class='panel-body'>
<p>
<b>Date:</b>
2015-04-13
</p>
<p>
<b>Location:</b>
Las Vegas Convention Center, Las Vegas NV
</p>
<label>Members Attending</label>
<p><ul>
<li>RE:Vision Effects, represented by Pierre Jasmin</li>
<li>GenArts, represented by Gary Oberbrunner</li>
<li>Sony Creative Software Inc., represented by Dennis Adams and Chris Dolan</li>
<li>Imagineer Systems, represented by John-Paul Smith and Boris Yamnitsky (Boris FX)</li>
<li>BlackMagic Design, represented by Vivek Vedagiri, Fu Qian, and Steve Roberts (Fusion)</li>
</ul></p>
<label>Observers Attending</label>
<p><ul>
<li>Jim Tierney, Digital Anarchy</li>
<li>Josh Davies, Andrea Wake, FXHOME</li>
<li>Todor Fay, NewBlue, Inc.</li>
<li>Ralf Tanger, FraunhoferLutz Goldmann, Imcube Labs</li>
<li>Scott Johnston, Stereo D</li>
<li>SGO, represented by Roman Dudek</li>
</ul></p>
<h3>Minutes</h3>
<hr>
<p><p>Meeting brought to order. Quorum present.</p>
<p>Re-appointment of Directors: Gary, Pierre, and Peter Huisma are willing to continue. Motion made to re-appoint them, motion seconded, vote taken, motion passes unanimously.</p>
<p>Discussion of accounts:<br />As of year-end 2014, the Association has <span>&pound;6,898 in its bank account, with expenses due within 12 months of <span>&pound;</span>844, leaving a current net asset balance of <span>&pound;6,054 and zero current liabilities. Major expenses in 2014 were <span>&pound;1,868 for the new web site, and &pound;552 for accountant fees. &nbsp;We had a surplus of &pound;1,172 for the year.<br /><br /></span></span></span>Currently 10 paying member companies, one non-paying open-source member. Companies will be billed annually. Vote taken, accounts approved.</p>
<p>The OpenFX API continues to gain plug-ins and hosts.<br />Bruno wrote 5 new example code samples (now on github) and programming guide. Please feel free to contribute more samples, help improve the guide, or create unit tests.<br />Website has been updated. &nbsp;Pierre re-organized the list of feature suggestions. Some discussion of the state of the sample code and that unit tests would be helpful. Natron offered to update the C++ wrapper. Some discussion of creating validation tests that would catch errors in plug-ins and/or hosts. Proposal made that we create a framework for a validation suite. Vote to spend association money on this, passed.</p>
<p>New members since last meeting:</p>
<ul>
<li><span>Imagineer Systems (which is now part of Boris FX)</span></li>
<li><span>BlackMagic Design (which now includes Fusion),</span></li>
<li><span>Quantel. </span></li>
</ul>
<p>Companies present that would like to join (please start joining process):</p>
<ul>
<li><span>NewBlue</span></li>
<li><span>FXHOME</span></li>
<li><span>Digital Anarchy.</span></li>
</ul>
<p>Discussion to create &ldquo;director in residence&rdquo; position so there is a backup ready to take on director responsibilities in case someone needs to step down. {After the meeting is was noted that this position is called "Alternate Director" in the Organisation papers.} Vote taken, approved. Pierre suggests Dennis, Dennis accepts.</p>
<p>Discussion of why it&rsquo;s a UK company; what about making it a US company? It would take a fair amount of work to do so (articles of incorporation, etc.) &mdash; leaving as-is for now.</p>
<p>Discussion of creating a sponsored OpenFX Stack Overflow tag. Chris Dolan took action to look into this.</p>
<p>Discussion on how to deliver updates to the specification (e.g., 1.4, 1.5). Currently we&rsquo;re limited to 2 updates per year, typically around December and June, but this could be adjusted. The website has been updated and previous discussions migrated to the new items.</p>
<p>Discussion of how to move specification additions forward (there have been many additions suggested that have stagnated). Suggestion made that each item gets a working group that makes regular (e.g., monthly) status reports to the member mailing list. Items that don&rsquo;t get a working group get removed from the backlog. General agreement on this. Pierre said that each items has a &ldquo;subcommittee&rdquo; field that can be used for the working group list (you need to be logged in to make edits to the wiki).</p>
<p>Discussion of &ldquo;what is ready for 1.4?&rdquo; with goal of getting it done this summer; decision made to follow up on mailing list.</p>
<p>It was noted that multiple recipients are possible at each company on the member mailing list, but standards update notifications can only go to one address (so use a mailing list on the receiving end if you need multiple people to receive these).</p>
<p>Discussion of forward and backward compatibility as we move forward in versions. The group needs to ensure that plug-ins and hosts supporting different versions continue to work together. As long as each side checks for suites this should continue to work.</p>
<p>Meeting adjourned.</p></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class='btn-group'>
<a type="button" class="btn btn-default" href="/minutes"><span class='glyphicon glyphicon-circle-arrow-left'></span> Back to minute list</a>
</div>

</div>

<div class='push'></div>
</div>
<footer>
<ul class='footer-link-group'>
<li>
<a target="_blank" class="footer-link" href="https://github.com/ofxa/openfx">OFX @ Github</a>
</li>
<li>
<a title="Association details" class="footer-link" href="/contents/page/association_information">Association Information</a>
</li>
</ul>
<br>
Copyright  &copy;2023 The Open Effects Association
</footer>
</body>
</html>
