<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title> Minutes Meeting 2022 05 10 |  The Open Effects Association</title>
<link rel="shortcut icon" type="image/x-icon" href="/assets/ofx_favicon-c6cb586c0f8efbaeff3167d1fd7cfca2.ico" />
<link rel="stylesheet" media="all" href="/assets/application-8fbc3aa4b380a52e15d414a59177d3a2.css" />
<script src="/assets/application-f474998312dbf9d63cf3d555583ac5a1.js"></script>
<meta name="csrf-param" content="authenticity_token" />
<meta name="csrf-token" content="v67T82BGFhSQcggK/n+7vM7Ht/13mX8K2rOLrZWqKe2RtLtAxnIbOyWtSueKTQBom+fDuC7kWegUsp/AgPso1g==" />
<meta content='IE=edge' http_equiv='X-UA-Compatible'>
<meta content='width=device-width, initial-scale=1' name='viewport'>
<script src='//netdna.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/3.1.1/js/bootstrap.min.js'></script>
</head>
<body class='c_minutes a_show' data-spy='scroll' data-target='.navbar-top' role='document'>
<div class='modal fade' id='terminal'>
<div class='modal-dialog modal-lg'>
<div class='modal-content'>
<div class='modal-header'>
<div aria-hidden='true' class='button close' data-dismiss='modal' type='button'>&times;</div>
<h4 class='modal-title'>Terminal Output</h4>
</div>
<div class='modal-body'>
<div class='window'></div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class='wrapper'>
<div class='navbar navbar-inverse navbar-fixed-top' role='components'>
<div class='container'>
<div class='navbar-header'>
<button class='navbar-toggle' data-target='.navbar-collapse' data-toggle='collapse' type='button'>
<span class='sr-only'>Toggle components</span>
<span class='icon-bar'></span>
<span class='icon-bar'></span>
<span class='icon-bar'></span>
</button>
</div>
<div class='navbar-collapse collapse'>
<div class='row'>
<div class='navbar-left'>
<div class='navbar-top'>
<div class='mobile'>
<ul class='nav navbar-nav'>
<li><a href="/">Welcome</a></li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/standard_changes">Standards Discussion</a></li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/contact_form">Contact</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class='desktop'>
<ul class='nav navbar-nav'>
<li class='nav-logo'>
<a class="navbar-link" href="/"><img src="/assets/OFX_small-41bc647075217376f758003aebeacf15.png" alt="Ofx small" /></a>
</li>
<li class='dropdown'>
<a href="/">Welcome <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-circle-arrow-left"></span></a>
<ul class='dropdown-menu inverse-dropdown'>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" href="#standard">Why a Standard?</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" href="#implementers">For Implementers</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" href="#organization">Association Business</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li class='dropdown api'>
<a class='navbar-link'>API Documentation <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-circle-arrow-down"></span></a>
<ul class='dropdown-menu inverse-dropdown'>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" target="_blank" href="/documentation/api_doc">API Reference</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" target="_blank" href="https://openfx.readthedocs.io/en/doc/Reference/index.html">Programming Reference</a>
</li>
<li>
<a class="navbar-link" target="_blank" href="https://openfx.readthedocs.io/en/doc/Guide/index.html">Programming Guide</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/standard_changes">Standards Discussion</a></li>
<li><a class="navbar-link" href="/contact_form">Contact</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class='desktop'>
<form role="form" class="navbar-form navbar-right form-inline" action="/users/sign_in" accept-charset="UTF-8" method="post"><input name="utf8" type="hidden" value="&#x2713;" /><input type="hidden" name="authenticity_token" value="vkbAZDfa/MLLhc8bsHvKgXrtlgOwZ7VY9FHX5Q47w+iQXKjXke7x7X5ajfbESXFVL83iRukak7o6UMOIG2rC0w==" />
<div class='form-group'>
<input type="text" name="user[email]" id="user_email" class="form-control input-xs" placeholder="Email" />
</div>
<div class='form-group'>
<input type="password" name="user[password]" id="user_password" class="form-control input-xs" placeholder="Password" />
</div>
<button class='btn btn-sm btn-primary' type='submit'>Sign in</button>
</form>

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class='container' role='main'>
</div>
<div class='container'>
<div class='panel panel-default'>
<div class='panel-heading'>
<h3 class='panel-title'>
Association General Meeting
<div class='pull-right'>
Published
</div>
</h3>
</div>
<div class='panel-body'>
<p>
<b>Date:</b>
2022-05-10
</p>
<p>
<b>Location:</b>
Online, Zoom
</p>
<label>Members Attending</label>
<p><ul>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Gary Oberbrunner (director)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Pierre Jasmin (director, RE:Vision Effects)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Peter Huisma (director, co. secretary, Assimilate)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Dennis Adams (director, Sony Creative Software Inc)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">John-Paul Smith (director, Boris FX)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Phil Barrett (member representative - FilmLight)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Philippe Jean (Autodesk) - disappeared after a couple of minutes</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Garrick Meeker (Digital Anarchy)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Jason Clement (Boris FX)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Robert Fanner (Foundry)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Boris Yamnitsky (Boris FX)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Mike Escola (Boris FX)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Paul Miller (Boris FX)<br />Not present: Grass Valley, Blackmagic, FXHome<br /></span></li>
</ul></p>
<label>Observers Attending</label>
<p><ul>
<li><span style="font-weight: 400;">David Morin (Academy Software Foundation)</span></li>
</ul></p>
<h3>Minutes</h3>
<hr>
<p><p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Meeting commenced at 1704 UK Time</span></p>
<p><span style="font-weight: 400;">Agenda Items</span></p>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">AGM</span></li>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Gary opened the meeting and welcomed the participants</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Pierre noted that we have quorum.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Dennis and J-P taking notes</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Peter presented the financials</span></li>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">GBP 5084.29 in the bank</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Last time we gathered membership fees was 2020, 2021 was skipped due to the pandemic</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">We may ask for membership fees this year depending on the future of the association.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">In 2020, 8 members paid dues and are considered to be the current membership.</span></li>
</ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Gary proposed reelecting the directors, Peter seconded. Passed unanimously by show of hands.</span></li>
</ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="1"><span style="font-weight: 400;">ASWF</span></li>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Gary presented a slide deck explaining the motivation for ASWF move (see slides)</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">75% of the membership will need to approve the change, this means 6 members need to vote in favour.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">David explained that it is not necessary for companies to join as ASWF members in order to participate. Joining as a member is about making a contribution to your favourite non-profit to support the cause.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Pierre asked about how ASWF members participate in the decision-making process and David clarified that the TAC is the major decision making body. Their decisions are passed to the board (premier members) who review non-technical matters to ensure that the engineers can continue to do their work.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">J-P explained the legal process. The board will arrange legal advice to draft a written resolution that will be circulated to members for approval. Members have 28 days to approve the resolution, failure to respond is considered a vote against. Once the resolution has been drafted, members will be consulted individually to answer any questions and secure votes. As soon as we have 6 votes in favour, we can proceed.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Peter explained the finances - our accountant will need to prepare final accounts on closing of the business.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Gary opened the floor to questions on this topic</span></li>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Dennis explained that he has participated in a number of ASWF projects and thinks this is an excellent idea.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Garrick asked in what areas we expected to increase the contributions to the project. Gary and Pierre explained that we expect more host support, more plug-ins and contributions to the standard from the larger community we will be able to engage. There was discussion of the OpenMeshEffect standard which is an extension of OpenFX that has engaged with us.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">David further added that when the project joins, we hope it will benefit from a new start to become the best version of itself. Other projects experienced an increase in commits of 100% in their first year. The beating heart of the project is the people who have looked after it so far, when the TSC is formed it should contain both "old guard" and "new guard" to reinvigorate the project.</span></li>
</ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">As the ASWF discussion concluded, Gary opened the floor for technical discussion:</span></li>
<ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Pierre mentioned the new overlay suite, developed this year, which is now supported by Scratch, Flame, Silhouette and Left Angle Autograph.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Phil Barrett asked if we could consider CUDA/Metal/OpenCL extensions. Gary explained that there are extensions for this in the wild (Resolve, FilmLight) which could be brought into the standard. There is also a unified Sony/Resolve OpenCL header that is ready to be standardized.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Another important next step is colour management. J-P mentioned that in Boris FX we have an internal extension to support OCIO which could be contributed.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Frederic has been making new updates to Natron including OpenTimelineIO. There is definitely scope for OTIO to use OFX. Having OTIO as a container for timelines that include OFX filters between hosts would be huge.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Pierre mentioned that we could also have an OTIO suite in OFX that allows a plug-in to look outside its clip at the rest of the timeline. This would help us deal with the issue of time bounds that has never been fully resolved.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="3"><span style="font-weight: 400;">Autodesk have also worked in this area and may have something to contribute, also in the area of spatial format.</span></li>
</ol>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">David gave some concluding notes - he has much more detailed information available about the foundation and would be happy to host a separate presentation to discuss this.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">There being no further matters to discuss, Gary proposed that we adjourn the meeting, and Dennis seconded.</span></li>
<li style="font-weight: 400;" aria-level="2"><span style="font-weight: 400;">The meeting concluded the meeting at 1755 UK time.</span></li>
</ol>
</ol></p>
</div>
</div>
<div class='btn-group'>
<a type="button" class="btn btn-default" href="/minutes"><span class='glyphicon glyphicon-circle-arrow-left'></span> Back to minute list</a>
</div>

</div>

<div class='push'></div>
</div>
<footer>
<ul class='footer-link-group'>
<li>
<a target="_blank" class="footer-link" href="https://github.com/ofxa/openfx">OFX @ Github</a>
</li>
<li>
<a title="Association details" class="footer-link" href="/contents/page/association_information">Association Information</a>
</li>
</ul>
<br>
Copyright  &copy;2023 The Open Effects Association
</footer>
</body>
</html>
